# BROICISM: 52 rules of life

Yo Bro, I asked the AI to turn what I consider one of the most important book of the universe into something you can fully appreciate.

Here is the thing. The pdf version is in the repository too.

You will also find other good stuff in this repository:

- notebooklm podcasts (it's a very good entrypoint if you ask me).
- The bro version of the meditations of Marcus Aurelius.

Without further ado, here goes the bro version of the **Enchiridion**.

# Know What You Control (And What You Don’t)

Life’s simple, really. There’s stuff you control, and stuff you don’t.
What you *do* control: your opinions, your goals, what you chase, what
you avoid – basically, your thoughts and actions. Your inner game. What
you *don’t* control: your body (beyond basic upkeep), your stuff (car,
cash), your reputation (what others think), your job title – basically,
anything outside your own choices. The external stuff is shaky ground.
Trying to force it is like yelling at the rain. If you mistake external
things (like someone else’s opinion) as essential for *your* happiness,
you’re setting yourself up for frustration, blame games, and stress.
Focus only on mastering *your* game – your thoughts, choices, reactions.
Accept external stuff for what it is: things that happen, but don’t
define you. Do that, and no one can truly mess with your peace of mind.
You won’t feel powerless, you won’t blame others, you won’t act against
your better judgment. Your inner self stays strong.

# Master Your Wants and Don’t Wants

Wanting things outside your control sets you up for disappointment.
Desperately trying to avoid things outside your control (criticism,
setbacks, getting sick) makes you miserable when they happen. Smart
move: Stop trying to dodge external negatives you can’t guarantee
avoiding. Focus your avoidance *only* on inner screw-ups: making bad
judgments, acting cowardly, giving in to weakness. As for desires? Dial
back the desperate need for external wins for now. Focus on mastering
your inner world first. When you *do* need to pursue external goals
(job, relationship), do it with purpose, but keep your cool regardless
of the outcome.

# See Things As They Really Are

That thing you love – phone, car, even a relationship? Remind yourself
what it actually *is*. Your favorite gadget? It’s plastic and circuits,
it can break. Your relationship? It involves mortal, flawed humans. This
isn’t being negative; it’s being realistic. Acknowledging the temporary
or fragile nature of things prepares you. If things change or break, you
can handle it with strength, not devastation.

# Mentally Rehearse for Annoyances

Going to the gym? Expect crowds, maybe someone annoying. Driving? Expect
traffic. Meeting? Expect potential disagreements. Picture the likely
frustrations *before* they happen. Why? So you can decide *now* to
handle them well. Tell yourself: "My goal isn’t just the
workout/drive/meeting, it’s also to keep my cool and act according to my
principles." If annoyances pop up, you’re ready: "Getting pissed wasn’t
the plan. Staying rational *was*."

# It’s Your Reaction, Not the Event

Events themselves don’t upset you. Your *judgment* about the event does.
A job rejection isn’t inherently terrible; the terror comes from your
*belief* that it’s terrible. When you feel blocked, stressed, or hurt,
don’t blame people or circumstances. Blame your interpretation. The
rookie blames others. The guy learning blames himself too harshly. The
guy who gets it realizes the issue is his *judgment*, and works on that.

# Don’t Ride on Borrowed Glory

Don’t get puffed up about things that aren’t really *yours*. Bragging
"My car is fast" or "My team won" is getting excited about the car’s
engineering or the team’s effort, not *your* core worth. What *is* truly
yours? How you *use* what life gives you – your choices, your actions,
your character. When you act with courage, wisdom, and integrity?
*That’s* when you earn the right to feel genuine pride. You’re proud of
something undeniably your own.

# Stay Focused on the Main Mission

Think of life like an important project or deployment. You might get
side-tracked by cool opportunities or enjoyable distractions along the
way. Enjoy them, but always keep the main mission in mind. Be ready to
drop the distractions when duty calls, when priorities shift, or when
major life changes happen. Don’t get so lost in the side quests
(possessions, fleeting pleasures, even relationships if they conflict
with core duties) that you forget your primary objective or aren’t ready
for the inevitable call to move on or face reality. If you’re getting
older, stay even more focused – the final call could come anytime.

# Want What Is, Not What You Wish

Stop wishing life would perfectly match your desires. That’s a direct
path to frustration. Instead, learn to *want* things to happen exactly
as they *do* happen. Align your will with reality. Master this, and
you’ll navigate life much more smoothly.

# Obstacles Are External, Not Core

Getting injured? That limits your body, but only limits your *will* if
you let it. A setback at work blocks that project, but doesn’t block
your *will* to adapt, learn, and persevere. Apply this everywhere.
Setbacks hinder *something else*, not *you*—your essential self—unless
you give them permission by surrendering your judgment.

# Know Your Inner Toolkit

Facing a challenge? Ask yourself: "What inner tool do I have for this?"
Tempted by something you know is wrong? Tool: Self-control. Facing
hardship? Tool: Endurance. Dealing with insults? Tool: Patience.
Practice identifying and using the right inner tool, and external stuff
loses its power to knock you down.

# Think "Returned," Not "Lost"

Never say "I lost it." Think "I returned it." Relationship ended?
Returned. Lost money? Returned. Job gone? Returned. "But it was unfair
how it happened!" Does the *method* of return change the fact that
nothing external was ever permanently yours? While life lets you have
something, treat it like borrowed equipment – appreciate it, use it
well, but know it’s on loan.

# Peace Over Agitated Wealth

Stop agonizing: "If I don’t constantly grind, I’ll fail!" or "If I don’t
micromanage everyone, they’ll screw up!" Seriously, it’s better to face
struggles with inner calm than to be rich but constantly stressed and
anxious. It’s better for your team to be imperfect than for *you* to be
miserable trying to force their perfection. Start small. Minor screw-up
happens? Tell yourself, "Small price for keeping my cool." Someone
doesn’t respond instantly? Their actions are theirs. Don’t give them the
power to ruin your peace.

# Be Okay Looking ’Clueless’ on Externals

If you’re serious about inner strength, accept you might seem out of
touch with trends, gossip, or status games. Don’t feel pressured to know
everything external. Even if others see you as ’important,’ stay
skeptical of that image. You can’t easily max out your inner game *and*
the external status game simultaneously. Focusing hard on one means less
focus on the other. Choose wisely.

# True Freedom is Wanting Only What You Control

Wishing things you can’t control were different (people living forever,
friends never failing you, markets always going up) is foolish and
guarantees pain. You’re wanting reality to bend to your will. Wanting
*not to be disappointed*? That *is* in your power. How? Focus your
desires on what you *do* control: your choices, your efforts, your
integrity. Whoever controls what you desperately crave or fear is your
master. Want freedom? Stop needing things that depend on others or luck.
Otherwise, you’re choosing slavery to circumstance.

# Handle Opportunities with Class

Think of life offering opportunities like food at a gathering (not a
stuffy banquet, maybe just a buffet or network event). Something good
comes your way (a job lead, a chance to connect)? Take a reasonable
share politely. Does it pass you by? Don’t grab at it desperately or
complain. Hasn’t arrived yet? Don’t stare hungrily; wait patiently.
Apply this to career, relationships, money. Handle them with moderation
when available, detachment when not. Better yet, develop the strength to
*politely decline* things you don’t truly need, even if offered. That
shows real power – the strength of self-sufficiency.

# Offer Support Without Catching the Panic

See someone genuinely upset? Offer support. Listen. Show empathy. But
internally, hold onto your rational perspective. Remind yourself: "The
*event* isn’t the core problem; their *judgment* about the event is
causing the deep pain." Be compassionate outwardly, but don’t let their
panic infect your own mind. *Don’t groan inwardly.*

# Play Your Assigned Role Well

Life casts you in a role. Maybe it’s challenging, maybe it seems minor,
maybe it’s prominent. Your job isn’t to complain about the casting. Your
job is to play the role you’ve been *given* to the absolute best of your
ability, with skill and integrity. Choosing the role isn’t up to you;
playing it excellently *is*.

# Signs Mean What You Decide They Mean

Bad news? Weird coincidence? Feeling ’unlucky’? Don’t get spooked by
superficial signs. Analyze: "This external thing says nothing definitive
about *my* core self." Adopt this mindset: "Any event can be a ’good
sign’ *for me* if I choose to use it well – to practice patience,
courage, learning, adaptation." You decide the meaning by how you
respond.

# You’re Unbeatable If You Only Fight Winnable Battles

Want to guarantee you’re never truly defeated? Only enter contests where
winning depends *solely on you*. That means focusing on internal battles
of character, not external competitions for status. See someone with
immense power, fame, or accolades? Don’t automatically assume they’re
’happy’ or ’winning’ at life. If true Good lies in our choices (which we
control), then envy makes no sense. Your goal isn’t to be CEO or famous.
Your goal is *freedom*. The only path? Disregard things not in your
control.

# Insults Need Your Agreement to Hurt

Someone insults you or acts aggressively? That person isn’t the *source*
of the hurt. Your *decision* to view their words/actions as insulting
*is*. When provoked, realize: your *opinion* is provoking you. First
step: Pause. Don’t get instantly swept away. Gain a moment of breathing
room, and you’ll find it much easier to stay in command of yourself.

# Keep Mortality and Hardship in Mind

Regularly contemplate the tough realities: loss, failure, pain, and
especially death. Keep them visible in your mind’s eye. This isn’t
morbid; it’s grounding. It strips away petty fears, stops you from
desperately clinging to fleeting things, builds courage, and clarifies
what truly matters.

# Expect Pushback When You Improve

Commit to living by these rules, to seriously working on yourself?
Prepare for some people to mock you: "Look who’s suddenly Mr. Serious,"
or "Trying to be better than us?" Don’t react by actually becoming
arrogant. Just quietly, consistently stick to the path you judge right.
If you persist, the mockers might eventually respect you. Cave to their
pressure? You earn double ridicule – for trying, and for failing weakly.

# Don’t Compromise Principles for Approval

Catch yourself tweaking your actions or beliefs just to impress someone
or fit in? Stop. You’ve just sabotaged your own integrity project. Be
content simply *being* a person of principle. If you need validation,
seek it from your *own* rational self-assessment. That’s the only
audience that counts.

# Define Your Worth and Contribution Correctly

Don’t get stressed thinking: "I’ll be overlooked, a nobody." Lack of
external status isn’t a true evil. It’s not your core mission to chase
power or invites. How can you be a ’nobody’ when you can be a ’somebody’
of great consequence in the *only* arena that counts – your own
character? "But I can’t help my friends/family (with
money/connections)!" Who said *that kind* of help defines your value?
Can you give integrity if you sacrifice yours chasing wealth? If they
demand you lose your own genuine good (honor) so they can gain a
superficial one (cash), that’s *their* flawed thinking. Better to *be* a
reliable, honorable person for them than to become corrupt trying to
provide mere externals. Same for ’helping your country’ – being one more
citizen of integrity *is* a vital contribution. Your ’place’? Whatever
you can hold while keeping your honor intact.

# Recognize the ’Price’ of External Rewards

Someone else gets the promotion, the invite, the attention? If those
things were obtained virtuously, great for them. If they required
compromises you weren’t willing to make (flattery, sucking up, ethical
shortcuts), then don’t be upset you didn’t get them. You can’t expect
the rewards without paying the ’price’. These things are often ’sold’
for a certain kind of behavior. If you’re unwilling to pay that price,
don’t demand the goods for free. You didn’t get the invite? Fine. What
*did* you get instead? The freedom of *not* having to kiss ass, the
relief of *not* praising someone you don’t respect, the integrity of
staying true to yourself. That has value too.

# Universal Rules Apply to You, Too

When your neighbor’s car gets dented, you think, "Unlucky, but stuff
happens." When *your* car gets dented, you lose your mind. Why the
difference? Learn to apply the same objective standard to yourself that
you naturally apply to others. Hear about someone else facing a common
hardship? Note your reaction ("That’s tough, a part of life"). When it
happens to *you*, recall that reaction and strive for the same rational
acceptance.

# Reality Isn’t Designed for Failure

Just like a target isn’t set up *hoping* you’ll miss, the universe
wasn’t fundamentally designed with ’evil’ or ’failure’ as its goal.
These arise from missing the mark – from our errors in judgment, our
failure to live according to reason.

# Guard Your Mind Fiercely

You’d be furious if someone physically restrained you or messed with
your body without permission. So why do you casually hand over your
*mind* to any random person who insults you online or criticizes you?
Why let their words instantly hijack your inner state? Protect your
mental space more fiercely than your property.

# Count the Cost Before Committing

Before jumping into any big endeavor (a tough project, intense training,
a major life change), seriously consider the prep work, the sacrifices,
the potential difficulties, and the long-term consequences. Don’t just
leap in on pure enthusiasm. Understand the *full* scope – the grind, the
discipline, the risk of failure. Weigh it honestly against your capacity
and commitment. *Then* decide. Otherwise, you’ll start strong and quit
when it gets real, looking foolish. Decide if you’re willing to pay the
full price for serenity and strength – which often involves less
comfort, less external validation, more discipline. Choose one path:
cultivate your reason and character, or chase externals like everyone
else. You can’t be both half-heartedly.

# Your Duties Flow From Your Roles

Your responsibilities are defined by your relationships. Father? Implies
care, respect, patience. Brother? Implies loyalty, fairness *from your
end*. Boss? Implies leadership, responsibility. Employee? Implies
diligence, respect. "But they’re a *bad* father/brother/boss!" Your duty
isn’t tied to *their* perfection; it’s tied to the *role*. Focus on
fulfilling *your* side of the relationship virtuously, according to
reason. Don’t let their actions dictate your integrity. Remember, you’re
only hurt if you *consent* to the idea of being hurt by judging their
actions as harmful to your core self.

# Real Respect for Reality: Right Judgment & Acceptance

True respect for the way things are (the Universe, Nature, Reality)
means holding correct beliefs: understanding that the world operates by
cause and effect, and striving to live in harmony with that reality.
Commit to obeying this natural order, accepting what happens without
complaint, trusting that even difficulties can be navigated wisely.
You’ll never find fault with reality itself if you stop demanding it
cater to your whims, and locate good/evil only in your own choices. If
you pin your hopes on externals, you’re guaranteed to feel betrayed or
neglected when things don’t go your way. Carefully manage your desires
(aim for virtue) and aversions (avoid vice), and your ’piety’ or respect
for reality will follow. (Traditional rituals, if practiced, should be
done respectfully and moderately).

# Seeking Guidance (From Experts or ’Fate’)

When seeking advice about an uncertain future (from a mentor, data, or
even just contemplating probabilities), remember: you don’t know the
specific outcome. But you *should* know its *nature* if it’s external:
it’s neither truly good nor truly evil *for your core self*. Don’t
approach seeking guidance full of desperate hope or fear. Understand
first: any external event is neutral *to you* because you always have
the power to respond wisely. Approach with confidence, ready to use
whatever comes. When clear duty requires facing risk (defending a
friend, taking a necessary business risk), don’t seek guidance on
*whether* to do it. Reason already tells you. Potential negative
outcomes (loss, failure, pain) don’t override duty. Listen to your
rational conscience above all predictions.

# Your Personal Code of Conduct

Establish clear standards for yourself, for when you’re alone and with
others.

- **Talk less, say more:** Mostly silent, or speak only what’s needed,
  concisely. Avoid constant chatter about trivial stuff (sports stats,
  gossip, food). Especially avoid judging people. Steer conversations to
  substance if you can; if stuck in trivia, silence is fine.

- **Control reactions:** Moderate laughter. Avoid unnecessary
  oaths/swearing.

- **Choose environments wisely:** Skip trashy entertainment. If you must
  be there, stay mentally sharp, don’t get sucked into mob mentality.
  Bad company corrupts.

- **Needs, not wants:** Provide for your body’s basic needs only. Cut
  luxury and showing off.

- **Handle relationships ethically:** Maintain integrity in
  relationships. Don’t be harsh on others’ failings, but don’t brag
  about your own discipline either.

- **Handle criticism calmly:** Someone trash-talks you? Don’t make
  excuses. Maybe say: "Guess they don’t know my *other* flaws."

- **Events:** Attend selectively. If there, wish for the best outcome
  based on merit, don’t get emotionally swept up. Afterwards, discuss
  lessons learned, not just surface details.

- **Meetings:** Prepare mentally. How would a wise person handle this?
  Anticipate hassles (delays, closed doors) – if duty requires going,
  accept what happens without complaint.

- **Self-promotion:** Avoid constantly talking about yourself, your
  exploits, your risks. It bores others. Avoid trying too hard to be
  funny – often backfires. Avoid crude talk; if others do it, show
  disapproval silently or firmly.

# Pause Before Pleasure

Tempted by a quick hit of pleasure (junk food, procrastination, risky
click)? Pause. Delay. Don’t get swept away. Now, picture two moments:
enjoying it, then regretting it later. Contrast that with how you’ll
feel – proud, strong – if you abstain. Even if it seems harmless, weigh
the temporary allure against the lasting satisfaction of winning that
internal battle.

# Act Rightly, Openly

If you’ve judged an action to be right, do it. Don’t hide it, even if
others might misunderstand. If your judgment was wrong, don’t do the
action. If it was right, why fear mistaken critics?

# Social Context Matters

In logic, "Either A or B" is fine. At a shared meal, taking the biggest
piece might satisfy hunger but breaks social rules. Remember both:
physical needs *and* social consideration. Act appropriately for the
context.

# Don’t Pretend Beyond Your Abilities

Taking on a role or project way beyond your current skill level? You’ll
likely fail at it *and* miss the chance to succeed at something you
*could* have handled. Be honest about your current capacity. Grow into
bigger roles, don’t just fake them.

# Protect Your Mind Like Your Body

You watch where you step to avoid injury. Be even *more* careful to
guard your mind – your reason, your judgment – from harm (bad
influences, irrational thoughts, hasty conclusions). Vigilance here
makes every action safer.

# Needs Have Limits, Wants Don’t

Your body needs certain things (food, shelter), like your foot needs the
right size shoe. Stick to meeting genuine needs, and you have a clear
measure. Go beyond – chasing luxury, status symbols, excess – and you’re
on a slippery slope with no end. Once you exceed the natural measure,
desire becomes boundless.

# Focus on Character, Not Just Image

Society pushes everyone to focus on superficials – looks, wealth,
status. People then pour energy into that image, hoping for respect.
Realize this: validation based on externals is flimsy. True, lasting
honor comes from inner qualities: integrity, rational conduct, genuine
confidence (not arrogance). Focus your main effort there.

# Mind First, Body Second

Spending excessive time obsessing over the body (extreme diets, endless
workout tweaking, constant health anxiety) shows a lack of perspective.
Handle physical needs efficiently, as maintenance for the tool. Your
*primary* focus and energy should go to strengthening your mind and
character.

# Understand Their Perspective (Even When Wrong)

Someone acts badly towards you? They’re acting based on *their*
perception of what’s right or necessary. They can’t see it your way;
they only see it theirs. If their perception is flawed, *they* are the
ones harmed by being mistaken. Think: If someone believes 2+2=5, the
math isn’t harmed, they are. Bearing this in mind allows you to respond
calmly, thinking, "That’s how it *seemed to them*."

# Grab the Right Handle

Everything has two handles: one that lets you carry it, one that makes
it unbearable. Brother wrongs you? Don’t grab the "injustice" handle
(unbearable). Grab the "he’s my brother, we share history" handle
(bearable). Always choose the perspective that allows you to respond
virtuously and constructively.

# Don’t Confuse Externals with Essence

"I have more money, so I’m *better*." Wrong. It just means "I have more
*money*." "I talk smoother, so I’m *superior*." Wrong. It just means "My
*style* is smoother." *You* are not your bank account or your speaking
style. Don’t equate external advantages with core worth.

# Describe, Don’t Rush to Judge

Someone acts quickly? Say they act *quickly*, not *badly*. Someone
drinks a lot? Say they *drink a lot*, not that they’re doing *wrong*.
Unless you understand their full reasoning and context, how can you know
the true nature of their action? Stick to facts. Avoid judgment based on
mere appearances you don’t fully grasp.

# Live Your Principles, Don’t Just Talk

Never declare "I follow these Rules!" Don’t lecture others. *Show* it by
your actions. At a meal, don’t preach about healthy eating; just eat
healthily. Be like Socrates: he avoided showmanship. If someone says
"You know nothing" and you *aren’t* angered, you’re likely on the right
track. Sheep don’t show off undigested grass; they produce wool and
milk. Digest these principles internally; let your *actions* be the
outward proof.

# Practice Discipline Quietly, For Yourself

Learned some self-discipline (eating simply, exercising regularly)?
Don’t boast. If you drink water, don’t make it a public announcement. If
you want to train for hardship, do it for *you*, not for show. Practice
quiet mastery: severely thirsty? Rinse your mouth, spit it out, *tell
nobody*.

# Where Do You Look for Good/Bad?

Untrained person: Looks *outside* – blames or credits external factors
for everything. Student of these rules: Looks *inside* – takes
responsibility for their judgments and choices as the source of good or
bad. Signs of progress: Criticizes no one, praises no one excessively,
blames no one, accuses no one. Doesn’t talk about self as important.
Takes responsibility for setbacks. Isn’t swayed by praise or blame.
Moves cautiously, protecting their inner progress. Manages desires and
aversions internally. Uses energy moderately. Doesn’t care about
appearing foolish externally. Watches self like an enemy agent.

# Use Wisdom, Don’t Just Admire Its Study

Impressive someone understands complex theories (of science, philosophy,
finance)? Fine. But the original thinker likely wrote complex stuff.
What’s *your* goal? To understand reality and live well. You seek
interpretations to help *apply* the knowledge. The application is the
only valuable part. Admiring the interpretation itself makes you a
commentator, not a practitioner. Better to live consistently with one
simple principle than to expertly explain complex theories you don’t
practice.

# The Time is Now. No More Delays.

Stick to the principles you’ve rationally accepted like unbreakable
laws. Ignore what others say – it’s irrelevant. How much longer will you
wait to demand the best from yourself? You have the tools. Stop making
excuses. You’re an adult now. Constant delay, planning to plan – that
path leads nowhere but mediocrity. Decide *now* you’re worthy of living
as a progressing adult. Let your highest reasoned judgment be your
guide. Pain, pleasure, fame, failure – the challenge is *here*, the
contest is *now*. It can’t be postponed. Every moment is a chance to win
or lose ground internally. Live like you’re *striving* to be your best
self, starting this instant.

# Action First, Theory Second

The most crucial part of living well is *doing* the right thing (e.g.,
Be honest). Second is understanding *why* (e.g., Why honesty matters).
Third is analyzing the logic (e.g., How arguments for honesty work). We
need #2 for #1, and #3 helps #2. But #1 – the actual practice – is the
most essential. Yet we often get stuck debating #3, becoming experts at
explaining *why* we should be honest, while still failing at #1.
Prioritize action.

# Core Attitudes to Keep Ready

Keep these fundamental mindsets always at hand:

1.  **Accept What Life Brings:**

    > Whatever Life and Fate decree for me,  
    > I’ll follow willingly, without complaint.  
    > Or if I foolishly resist in pain,  
    > I’ll follow anyway, just dragged along.

2.  **Wisdom in Acceptance:**

    > The wise accept what they can’t change or fight,  
    > And understand the laws of day and night.

3.  **Embrace Reality:**

    > (Like Socrates said) "If this is how things must be, so be it."

4.  **Protect Your Inner Self:**

    > (Like Socrates knew) "Others can harm my body or reputation, maybe
    > even kill me, but they cannot touch my true self or make me do
    > wrong."
